Hi, my name is Trish
and I am a contract teacher
at Birchmount School.
I'm here to talk about our GSA,
our gender Sexuality Alliance,
and how it became part
of our essential school learning.
Here at Birchmount, we've had a GSA
for as long as I can remember.
Originally, it kind of was a little more
under the radar,
but one particular teacher took it on.
And over the last few years,
particularly with the political climate,
we've really been pushing to ensure
that it is very overt
that students are very aware
that we recognize the importance
and that we provide the same equality
for students with gender, sexuality
concerns We we really make sure
that all students understand
that they are equal regardless of gender,
sexuality, skin color, religion, culture.
And providing
that GSA group is really important
for students to have a place to go,
to have confirmation conversations
with each other and with adults to know,
you know, questions
they may have or just understanding
their are as accepted.
One of the really big things
that I have found, particularly
over the last couple of years,
is the importance of having someone
that is a role model to the students
that is running your GSA.
Obviously, it's ideal
if you can have more than one adult within
your building that can be part of it
and be more of that safe person.
But students really can resonate
when there is one person that they know
very overtly, very consistently
is that person they can go to.
So for me personally,
it was really easily easy to do that
because I wear my rainbows all the time.
I'm very, very huge on equality.
I've been part of LGBTQ
plus for most of my life,
so it was a very natural transition
for me to be able to step into that role
and provide that for students,
because I was already doing that.
GSA just makes it a little more formal,
where we have meetings every week and
allow the students to have conversations,
plan events, particularly pride.
We usually plan our pride events
that are coming up,
and there are lots of other things.
So it's very student led.
So they provide the kind of agenda.
I just act as a role to help
keep them on track.
So this is what we talked about this week.
What do you want to talk about this.
You know, last week,
that kind of idea that sparked my my job,
So the biggest thing that I recommend to
schools is making sure that whoever is
taking on the role of advisor for the GSA
is really, truly passionate about it.
The students can feel that.
And it really does help the students
to be able to articulate, to you
and feel safe to express to you concerns,
questions, comments that they might have.
That's the biggest thing
that I can recommend.
And really having making sure that
everyone knows who that person is within
the whole school, regardless of age, is
everyone needs to know.
And so that's my biggest recommendation